# BIMM143_Final_Project
In this project, we created scientific question by diving deeper into our understanding of project 1 from this course. In my group's project 1 analysis, we analyzed the bioinformatic methods of RNA-seq, hierarchal clustering, and heatmapping of the electric organ of 6 different fish species. This research was originally conducted by Gallant, Jason R, et al. (2014). To summarize the important findings from that research, Gallant and their research team first provided evidence that the electric organ trait was not a synapomorphic trait and convergently evolved in species independently. From this, they analyzed 6 species from the Mormyroidea, Siluriformes, and Gymnotiformes families and found that the there is a combination of highly expressed and underly expressed genes that contributed to the phenotypic trait of electrogenesis within organs. Theses genes relate to the down-regulation of myogenic transcriptional "profile", increased cellular excitability, enhanced insulation, elimination of excitation-contraction coupling, and increasing cellular size all contributed to the electrogeneis phenotype.
Reference: Gallant, Jason R et al. “Nonhuman genetics. Genomic basis for the convergent evolution of electric organs.” Science (New York, N.Y.) vol. 344,6191 (2014): 1522-5. doi:10.1126/science.1254432

From this research, I found that they only analyzed a small sample size of species. In addition to that, the only demonstrated that convergent evolution of the electric organ phenotype was present among species with relatively close proximity to each other. To further explain 4 of the 5 species are from the same common ancestor, while one species is from a completely different common ancestor. Although the research from Gallanant (2014) did prove that the electric organ trait develops independently, I am quite skeptical of the relative closeness of analyzed species. Thus with this in mind, I am looking at a species that is quite far of a common ancestor from the 5 analyzed species. Looking at the phylogenetic tree given in the research, I wanted to compare species from the Rajiformes families to the families that were analyzed in the paper.

With this, my scientific question was are the Rajiformes family's development of the electric organ phenotypic characteristic originate from the same expression of genes as the species from the Mormyroidea, Siluriformes, and Gymnotiformes families, which have been founded by Gallant in 2014?

Following the Jupyter python notebook, you will see my analysis of the Rajiformes family as we looked to compare through multiple sequence alignment and pairwise sequence alignment to find if there is any similaries between the Rajiformes family and the Gymnotiformes family. Further analysis focused on the GEO research that looked into the expression of electroreception found in the cells of _Leucoraja erinacea_.

To perform similar research, you will need acess to Jupyter Notebook, through Anaconda, as well as the necessary files found in the repository. 
